¶ Boy, the way
Glenn Miller played ¶
¶ Songs that made
The Hit Parade ¶
¶ Guys like us
We had it made ¶
¶ Those were the days ¶
¶ And you knew where
You were then ¶
¶ Girls were girls
And men were men ¶
¶ Mister, we could use a man
Like Herbert Hoover again ¶
¶ Didn't need
No welfare state ¶
¶ Everybody pulled
His weight ¶
¶ Gee, our old LaSalle
Ran great ¶
¶ Those were the days ¶
[GROANS]
Edith.
Edith!
My back is killing me!
ARCHIE: Edith!
There he goes again.
Edith!
[BAT KNOCKING ON FLOOR]
[SIGHS] Ma, Daddy's
calling again.
Ma.
Hey, why'd they stop
talking on the TV?
They're getting ready
to operate on the little boy.
What's wrong with him?
Well, the world-famous surgeon
thinks it's a burst appendix,
but Marcus Welby says
it's nothing
but a green apple bellyache.
Edith!
Coming, Archie!
Ma, you want me
to go upstairs
for you this time?
Oh, would you, Gloria?
Thank you.
Yeah.
What do you think it is, Ma?
Well, I got to go along
with Dr. Welby.
I don't think it's...
I think it's
just a green apple bellyache.
Ma, I was talking about Archie.
Oh, no.
Archie never eats apples
unless they're cooked.
Edith! Edith! Edith!
I'm here, Daddy.
You ain't Edith.
Where's your mother?
She's downstairs resting.
She's tired, Daddy.
She's tired?
I'm the one that's
been laying here all week.
Yeah, laying up here
banging on the floor,
making all that noise.
Why do you keep
that stupid baseball bat
in the bedroom for, anyway?
Listen, little girl,
this is household security--
my old ball bat
from high school days.
If you'd have been born a boy
like you should have been,
you'd have inherited that.
I'm sorry
I disappointed you, Daddy.
Now, what'd you want?
I called Stretch Cunningham
down at work
about five hours ago.
Did he call me back?
No, he didn't.
Well, they must be
in awful trouble down there
on the job without me.
Are you sure
our phone is working okay?
I'm sure, Daddy.
I'd never know anything up here
all by myself.
I feel like I'm shipwrecked
on a desert island.
Jeez, even Robinson Crusoe
had company on Friday.
Listen, Daddy,
I'm sorry you're in pain,
but it's not gonna
do you any good
to worry about work.
I'm sure they're
getting along down there
without you just fine.
What do you mean
by that?
Nothing. All I meant
was nobody's indispensable.
Well, you're wrong.
I happen to be the most
dispensable guy down there.
I'm sorry, Archie.
What did you want?
One, I want my back rubbed.
And two, when I call for you,
I don't want
the second team sent up here.
Thanks a lot, Daddy.
It's really nice
to be appreciated.
Oh, he didn't mean
nothing, Gloria.
It's just
the pain talking.
I'll see you later, Ma.
It's just
the pain talking.
You're the only pain
that's talking.
Come on and rub
my back now.
And don't hurt me!
Oh, Edith!
Your fingers are as cold
as tricycles here!
[SCREAMS]
[SIGHS]
How's Archie?
He's okay.
Boy, I wish he'd get laryngitis
some time.
[TELEPHONE RINGING]
Hello?
No, he's sick upstairs in bed.
Can I please tell him
who called?
Oh, he's been expecting
your call.
Michael, it's Stretch Cunningham
from the plant.
Who cares?
Oh, good,
he'll be happy to hear that.
Yes, thank you.
ARCHIE: [YELLING]
Who's that on the phone?
Excuse me a second.
Daddy, it's Stretch Cunningham
from the plant.
He says don't worry
about the job. Stay in bed.
They're doing fine without you.
ARCHIE: Hold that phone!
I'm coming down!
Hold on, Mr. Cunn--
ARCHIE: Hold on!
My father wants
to speak to you.
Edith, what are
you doing to me?
I'm trying to help you.
You got the right arm
in the wrong hole.
Get away from me,
Edith, get away!
Give me the phone.
Get over there.
[CALMLY] Hiya, Stretch.
Well, I just wanted to know
how everything was down at work.
Fine, huh?
Well, how's the new guy,
Chuck Matthews, because I--
Yeah, I know
he's as strong as an ox.
Well, no, no,
I just wanted to say
that I'll be well
in a couple of days.
I'll come down and straighten
everything out for you.
Everything's
all straightened out anyway.
Yeah, well, all right, Stretch.
No, that's all right.
Thanks
for calling me back, yeah.
Yeah, goodbye...
you lousy crumb.
Well, it was nice
of him to call you
and put your mind at rest.
Aw, put the robe on me,
will you, Edith,
and don't talk,
it makes the pain worse.
Help me over
to the chair.
Aren't you going
back to bed?
No, I ain't.
And will you get
your little keister
out of my chair?
Archie, you don't want
the doctor to come
and find you up.
It makes
a better impression
if you ain't
walking around.
Oh, yeah?
Well, I got news for you.
They don't care
if you're up or down.
Doctors. You could be
hanging in a closet
for all they care,
bunch of butchers.
They treat you like
you was a side of beef.
[GROANS]
[GROANS] Oh, gee.
Pain goes through me
like a knife.
You probably aggravated it
when you came down.
What was so important
about that phone call anyway?
It talks.
I thought that was a dummy
out of the wax museum,
but it's alive.
[CHUCKLES]
Look at him,
gawking over his checkers there.
It's not checkers, it's chess.
Aw, tell me something
I don't know, huh?
I know it's chess.
I'll tell you something
that you don't know.
That there's a Commie game.
Chess is a Commie game?
See? You didn't know that.
Certainly.
Them Russians forced
that there game
on the kids in kindergarten,
instead
of learning them handball.
Edith, I wonder what
Stretch Cunningham meant
when he said
they was doing good
without me
down at work.
[GROANS]
Hey, look at that.
Every time you mention work,
your back gets worse.
You know, I think
your illness is psychosomatic.
Psychosomatic?
What's that?
Oh, my, I hope
it ain't as bad
as the heartbreak
of psoriasis.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Well, is it?
Psychosomatic means
your problem
is all in your mind.
See, sometimes,
worry can bring on all...
all the symptoms
of a physical illness.
Daddy, have you been
worried about your job?
I ain't worried
about my job!
Archie, I didn't know
you was worried about your job.
Stifle yourself, huh?
It's that new guy, right?
Chuck Matthews.
No!
Sure, he's young,
he's strong.
You're worried
he's gonna take over
for you down there.
That is a lie! I--
[SCREAMING]
Get away from me!
Edith, get the feet down!
Edith, Edith!
Help me, help me, Edith!
[HOWLING]
You hurt me, you hurt me,
you hurt me!
[DOORBELL BUZZES]
Hello, Gloria.
[COUGHING AND GAGGING]
Come on in, doctor.
Dr. Spence,
thank you for coming.
Archie has been
in a lot of pain.
Edith, I'll tell the doctor
about my own pain!
Oh, gee.
Come on upstairs, will you?
[HACKING]
Oh, my, doctor,
that cough
don't sound too good.
It's the pollution.
It's gonna kill us all.
Oh, my.
I hope he can help
your father.
Don't worry, Ma.
Daddy'll be all right.
Oh, I hope so,
because he ain't
too good at feeling bad.
It's like having a wounded bear
around the house all day.
It ain't so good at night
neither.
Archie keeps waking me up
to turn him over,
and sometimes
he rolls back again
before I can get out of the way.
Oh, no!
Oh, yeah,
my arm's the only part of me
that went to sleep all night.
I'd better get up there
and see what's going on.
[HACKING]
Oh, jeez...
Well, what do you
think, doc, huh?
Well, you want to know
what I think...
[HACKING, GAGGING]
Doc...
you're germinating
all over me here.
Doctor, how is Archie?
Will he have to stay home
much longer?
No, just today, Mrs. Bunker.
Oh, that's good, Archie.
Tomorrow, I want him
to go into the hospital.
WOMAN:
Mr. Bunker.
What? Huh?
Wake up, Mr. Bunker.
Time for your pill,
Mr. Bunker.
[MOANS]
Another sleeping pill,
I suppose.
Everything all right,
Mr. Duval?
[FRENCH ACCENT]
Oh, yes.
I think I'm going
to like this room
better than my old one.
Yes, it's nearer
to the kitchen too.
Some of your meals might
still be warm when you get them.
[BOTH LAUGH]
You Americans
are so funny.
Hey, nurse.
What'd they do,
move another guy in there
while I was sleeping?
Yes, Mr. Bunker,
you have a new neighbor.
Oh, I'm glad for the company.
Open the partition
so we can see each other.
I'm sorry, it's stuck.
I'll get one of the men
to come up and fix it.
Yeah, well,
while you're at it,
tell my doc
to come and see me, will you?
I ain't seen that croaker
in two days.
Dr. Spence
will be coming in later.
Now try to relax.
Relax, they tell you.
Just when you get all relaxed,
they come around
and try and shove a pill at you
or a bedpan under you.
[SIGHS] Then when you really
need a bedpan,
all the nurses are shooting pool
or something.
Oh, you are quite right,
my friend.
We are at their mercy.
Uh, permit me
to introduce myself. Jean Duval.
Oh, nice to meet you there,
Johnny.
No, no, no, no.
Ce n'est pas "Johnny,"
c'est "Jean."
J-E-A-N.
That's Jean.
Hey, are you sure
you're a boy over there?
[LAUGHS]
I think so.
Just a moment,
I will check.
Yes, I am a boy.
That's a funny one there, John.
Hey, you sound like a Frenchy.
Are you?
Oui, from Martinique.
I'm from Queens, New York.
Archie Bunker's my name.
What are you
in for, John?
Well, I had this pain
in my back.
Hey, that's what I got.
Fortunately, they found out
what the trouble was.
Well, tell me, will you?
What is it?
An epidural cyst.
That sounds like
an important part of you.
Oh, I should hope not.
They cut me open
and took it out.
Well, I think
I want to keep mine.
[HACKING AND COUGHING]
That's my doctor now.
[CONTINUES TO HACK]
Hey, doc,
where you been,
and why you leave me alone
like this here?
These nurses are sticking
so many needles into me,
you'd think they was
hooking a rug.
I'm sorry, but we have to make
an exhaustive
diagnostic evaluation.
Well, can't you do that
after you find out
what's wrong with me?
Well, it doesn't seem
to be rheumatic,
and you haven't slipped
a disc, so, uh...
So, what?
Well, we'll just have
to look deeper.
Oh, hold it, hold it, doc.
You ain't going to go
cutting into me now, are you?
Oh, no, no, no,
I wouldn't do that.
Well, that's a load off my mind.
We'd get a surgeon to do it.
Will you please cut the funnies?
Only if we have to.
[HACKING]
[WHEEZES]
Have you got a cigarette?
No!
See you later.
Wait a minute.
You just got here!
Don't worry. I'm stopping
in to see you tonight.
Oh, well, good.
If not tonight,
maybe the day after tomorrow.
[LAUGHS]
[HACKING]
Ain't he a beauty?
Hey, here he is.
How you doing, Arch?
Oh, hiya there, Lionel!
Come on in.
Hey, Louise,
how are you?
Hi, Archie.
We can't stay long.
I've got to get
back to the store.
Oh, well,
it's nice of you to drop around.
I brought you some
nice, hot chicken soup.
You make chicken soup?
Yeah, Mom makes it
special, with ribs.
Stop it, Lionel.
Be serious.
Yeah. Be serious, will ya?
Do what your mother tells you.
Archie, aren't you going
to introduce me to your family?
Uh... Uh, wait, wait,
wait there.
Why... Why wait?
Your wife looks charming.
John, John, listen.
Her and me ain't married.
Oh, even better, mon vieux.
She gave you
a fine-looking son anyway.
She never gave me nothing
but chicken soup here.
Lionel! Lionel, tell Johnny
you ain't my son.
Okay, whatever you say, Pop.
We're just neighbors,
Mr., uh..
Duval.
Mrs. Jefferson.
Lionel, don't be a wise guy now.
Make yourself useful
while you're here.
Open up that partition
so Johnny and me
can see each other.
You mean you two
haven't seen each other?
No, they just wheeled him
in here.
LOUISE: Uh, Lionel,
I think we'd better go.
Aw, no, no.
No, wait a second, Ma.
We're just getting
to the good part here.
Lionel...
Let's go. We're late now.
Goodbye, Archie.
All right.
Nice to have met you, Mr. Duval.
Enchanté, madame.
Ooh!
Lionel, did you see that?
Oh, Mr. Duval.
Oh!
Ah, a lovely woman.
Are you sure
you're just neighbors, Archie?
Oh, that's all we are!
Jeez...
I mean,
this ain't gay Paree, you know.
We don't go for that "viva
the different stuff" over here.
[CHUCKLES]
You mean vive la différence.
Oh, you say that pretty good.
But then you would,
being French.
Hey, did you ever
run across that there...
that there frog singer,
you remember...
used to be alive...
uh... Morris Chevrolet?
Who?
[FRENCH ACCENT]
¶ Every little breeze ¶
¶ Seems to whisper Louise ¶
¶ Birds in the trees
Seem to whisper... ¶
Archie!
Aw, Edith, there.
Excuse me.
Archie, you must be
feeling much better.
I ain't heard you
do your Rudy Vallee
imitation for years!
Stifle yourself, huh?
Hi, Arch.
Hi, hi. Where's Gloria?
Oh, she said she'd stop by
on her way from work.
I wish you could say
you'd stop by
on your way from work.
You know, Arch, it's really
a thrill visiting you.
Hey, Johnny.
Hey, here's
my real wife now.
Edith, say hello
to Johnny Duval over there.
He's a Frenchman.
Bonjour, madame.
How do you do,
Mon...sewer?
You don't
have to talk French to him.
He talks English.
Ain't it funny, Archie?
He don't look French.
Uh, pardon?
I was just saying...
[LOUDLY]
you don't look French!
Really?
Edith, you wouldn't know
a Frenchy from a heinie.
Now, get over here,
will you?
Jeez.
[MIMICKING EDITH]
"You don't look French."
You could tell he was French
from looking at him, huh?
No, but from listening to him.
I ain't seen him yet
with that partition there.
Oh, that explains it.
Archie, did
Dr. Spence find out
what was wrong
with your back?
No. He just keeps
running in and out,
looking for cigarettes.
I still think
it's psychosomatic.
Well, you know what I think?
What?
Shut up!
Archie, I brought
you the Twinkies
you asked for.
Leave the Twinkies
on the table there, Edith,
and listen to me, will you?
This is serious.
I may be in here
for a long time to come.
I may never
get back to work. Oh!
Arch, Arch, don't you see
how your mind is working?
"I may be here
for a long time.
I may never
get back to work."
And then your back
starts to hurt.
I'm telling you, Arch,
it's all in your mind.
It ain't in my mind!
[HOWLING]
See? See what
I'm talking about?
Get the doctor!
Get the doctor! Get the doctor!
Arch.
Get away from me.
Arch...
Get away from me...
Arch!
Get away from me!
Think of
something else.
Get away from me!
[MOANS]
Psychosomatic.
Get away from me!
JEAN: Archie,
I am so sorry
you're feeling so bad.
Oh, well.
It's pain, but I can put up
with it there, Johnny.
Yeah, I learned to live
with pain in the war,
the big one.
The big one?
Yeah, overseas in WWII.
We saved your country
for you there, Jean.
Remember?
Oh, yes, that was very nice
of you, Archie.
Maybe someday we can return
the favor.
Aw, forget it.
You know, John,
you and me could
be laying up here together
for a long time.
I may never get back to work
at the plant.
[GRUNTS]
What kind of work
do you do, Archie?
Oh, I'm the boss
of a loading bay, John.
I got some men under me there.
Stretch Cunningham,
Black Elmo...
Black Elmo?
Yeah, well, we call him that.
That ain't really his name, see,
but there's two Elmos
working down there,
and we call this guy
"Black Elmo"
so as not to get him mixed up
with regular Elmo.
[LAUGHS] Oh, I see.
How many regular men do you
have working for you, Archie?
Oh, I got two, if you want
to include this new guy,
Chuck Matthews.
[MOANS]
A young know-it-all.
24-year-old punk.
A pain in the butt.
You think maybe
he's after your job, Archie?
[MOANS]
Hey, hey...
Hey there, Johnny...
That's pretty sharp of you
to come up with that one.
No, no, no.
I heard your son-in-law
say it before.
It may be psychosomatic.
Aw, he don't know
nothing, though. You do.
Hey, John,
you're a pretty sharp man there,
which is what you and me
got in common.
Hey, you know what I think?
When the two of us
get out of this joint,
what we ought to do is,
you ought to get your wife,
and come over my house
for supper some night.
Thank you, Archie,
but you and I are...
how you say...uh...
two ships
that pass in the night.
No, we ain't, John.
We can't let that happen,
because you are
my kind of people.
If you say so, Archie.
While I'm thinking about it,
why don't I give you my address?
You can write it down there.
704 Hauser Street.
Uh, hold it, Archie,
I don't have a pen.
Oh, well, I got one
over here, John,
but, jeez, I can't reach it
with the pain.
Okay, Archie, I'll get it.
And they let you
get out of bed, huh?
Certainement.
They say I should walk
a little now every day.
[MOANS]
Oh, lucky you.
Ready.
Who are you?
Jean Duval.
Wait a minute,
wait a minute.
Wait a minute!
You said
you was a Frenchman.
Oui.
Well, you didn't tell me
you was black.
You didn't tell me
you was white.
Well, white people
don't have to go around
telling other people that.
I shall remember that
for future reference.
Oh, nurse.
Nurse, hey, nurse.
Archie, we can't
find Dr. Spence.
Oh, I don't care nothing
about Dr. Spence
or this hospital!
I'm getting
the hell out of here!
I'm going back to work!
Archie!
Look, Archie.
Look, he's
moving around!
I told you, psychosomatic!
ARCHIE:
Ah...
You! Psycho, psycho...
You and this guy ought
to get together
and make a record.
No, no, no, no, no.
He is right.
Your illness was psychosomatic.
It is, in fact.
But that is not what got you
up on your feet again.
Huh?
It was...that old black magic.
[¶]
ANNOUNCER: All in the Family
was recorded on tape
before a live audience.
www.tvsubtitles.net
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org